Terraform

Write
terraform init (one time)
terraform plan
terraform apply (-auto-approve)

In tf, there's a concept of current state and desired state.
Current state is what actually exist on cloud, while desired state is what we specify in our config files.
And TF will always make changes to the resources such that they are brought to desired state.
Hence, any manual changes done on the cloud will get reverted after doing terraform apply if they are not specified in the config files.
BUT, this will only happen if that particular config is being set in our config files.
For e.g, Let's say you generate an ec2 instance using tf, don't specify any security_groups in config file.
(In this case, a "default" security group will get attached to the ec2 automatically)
Then you manually added a security group(sg-1) on AWS.
Next time you do a terraform plan, it'll detect that sg-1 was added to the ec2(because tf checks current state using refresh command), but after doing apply, it won't remove it.
But, if you had created the ec2 and specified a security group(sg-2), tf would have deleted sg-1 on apply.

How to change this default behavior such that terraform ignores manually added changes?
Ans - Lifecycle Meta Agrument
This is how declare them-

lifecycle {
	ignore_changes = [tags]
}

Other Imp Lifecycle arguments:
create_before_destroy

tfvar file
terraform will pick tfvar file automatically from the directory only if it is named terraform.tfvars. If it's named any differently, then it won't pick.

The Order of Precedence
The order of precedence for variable sources is as follows with later sources taking precedence over earlier ones:
1. Environment variables
2. The terraform.tfvars file, if present.
3. The terraform.tfvars.json file, if present.
4. Any *.auto.tfvars or *.auto.tfvars.json files, processed in lexical order of their filenames.
5. Any -var and -var-file options on the command line, in the order they are provided.

Also note, the variable you provided during "terraform plan -var="my_bucket_name=my-name" will get lost during terraform apply, unless you save it to output file.
Or you need to provide the var parameters during apply

Terraform Refresh command
When we do terraform plan, we basically first do a terraform refresh (and get current state from cloud provider) and then generate a plan after taking in changes from current state.
However, you can set -refresh=false flag while generating a plan. This will not get the current state (and hence any manually added changes will not show up)
But terraform apply will work normally, i.e it'll remove any manually done change.